.TH topfew
.PP
A program that finds and prints out the top few records in which a certain field or combination of fields occurs most frequently.
.SH Usage
.PP
.RS
.nf
tf 
    \-n, \-\-number (output line count) [default is 10]
    \-f, \-\-fields (field list) [default is the whole record]
    \-g, \-\-grep (regexp) [may repeat, default is accept all]
    \-v, \-\-vgrep (regexp) [may repeat, default is reject none]
    \-s, \-\-sed (regexp) (replacement) [may repeat, default is no changes]
    \-w, \-\-width (segment count) [default is result of runtime.numCPU()]
    \-\-sample
    \-h, \-help, \-\-help
    filename [default is stdin]

All the arguments are optional; if none are provided, tf will read records 
from the standard input and list the 10 which occur most often.
.fi
.RE
.SH Options
.PP
\fB\fC\-n integer\fR, \fB\fC\-\-number integer\fR How many of the highest‐occurrence‐count lines to print out. 
The default value is 10.
.PP
\fB\fC\-f fieldlist, \-\-fields fieldlist\fR Specifies which fields should be extracted from incoming records and used in computing occurrence counts.
The fieldlist must be a comma‐separated  list  of  integers  identifying  field numbers, which start at one, for example 3 and 2,5,6.
The fields must be provided in order, so 3,1,7 is an error.
.PP
If no fieldlist is provided, \fBtf\fP treats the whole input record as a single field.
.PP
\fB\fC\-g regexp\fR, \fB\fC\-\-grep regexp\fR
.PP
The  initial \fBg\fP suggests \fB\fCgrep\fR\&.
This option applies the provided regular expression to each record as it is read and if the regexp does not match the record, \fBtf\fP bypasses it.
.PP
This option can be provided multiple times; the provided regular expressions will be applied in the order they appear on the command line.
.PP
\fB\fC\-v regexp\fR, \fB\fC\-\-vgrep regegxp\fR
.PP
The initial \fBv\fP suggests \fB\fCgrep ‐v\fR\&. This operation is the  inverse  of \fB\fC\-g\fR and \fB\fC\-‐grep\fR, rejecting records that match the  provided regular  expression.
.br
As  with \fB\fCgrep\fR, it can be provided multiple times.
.PP
\fB\fC\-s regexp replacement\fR, \fB\fC\-\-sed regexp replacement\fR
.PP
As its name suggests, applies sed‐style editing by replacing any text that matches the provided regexp with the provided replacement.
It  works on the fields in the fieldlist after they have been extracted from the record.
.PP
If ()‐enclosed capturing groups appear in the regexp,  they  may be referred to as \fB$1\fP, \fB$2\fP, and so on in, the replacement.
.PP
This  option can be provided many times, and the replacement operations are performed in the order they appear on  the  command line.
.PP
\fB\fC\-\-sample\fR
.PP
It can be tricky to get the regular expressions in the \fB\fC−g\fR, \fB\fC−v\fR, and \fB\fC−s\fR options  right.
Specifying \fB\fC\-−sample\fR  causes  \fBtf\fP  to  print lines to the standard output that display the filtering and field‐editing logic.
It can  only  be used when processing standard input, not a file.
.PP
\fB\fC\-w integer\fR, \fB\fC\-\-width integer\fR
.PP
If a file name is specified then \fBtf\fP, rather than reading it from end to end, will divide it into segments and process it in multiple parallel threads.
The optimal number of threads depends in a complicated way on how many cores your CPU has what kind of cores they are, and the storage architecture.
.PP
The default is the result of the Go \fB\fCruntime.NumCPU()\fR calls and often produces good results.
.PP
\fB\fC\-h\fR, \fB\fC\-help\fR, \fB\fC\-\-help\fR
.PP
Describes the function and options of \fBtf\fP\&.
.SH Examples
.PP
To find the IP address that most commonly hits your web site, given an Apache logfile named \fB\fCaccess_log\fR\&.
.PP
\fB\fCtf \-\-fields 1 access_log\fR
.PP
The same effect could be achieved with
.PP
\fB\fCawk '{print $1}' access_log | sort | uniq \-c | sort \-rn | head\fR
.PP
But \fBtf\fP is usually much faster.
.PP
Do the same, but exclude high\-traffic bots (omitting the filename).
.PP
\fB\fCtf \-fields 1 \-vgrep googlebot \-vgrep bingbot\fR 
.PP
Most popular IP addresses from May 2020.
.PP
\fB\fCtf \-fields 1 \-grep '\\[../May/2020'\fR
.PP
Most popular hour/minute of the day for retrievals.
.PP
\fB\fCtf \-fields 4 \-sed "\\\\[" ""  \-sed '^[^:]*:' ''  \-sed ':..$' ''\fR
.SH Credits
.PP
Tim Bray created version 0.1 of Topfew, and the path toward 1.0 was based chiefly on ideas stolen from Dirkjan Ochtman and contributed by Simon Fell.
